KS-SK1181-CREATION-Setting-Email_pro-on-Outlook-for-android-TRANSLATIONS (#4952)
ovh/docs: pages/web/emails-pro/how_to_configure_outlook_android/guide.en-gb.md

---
title: "Configuring your Email Pro account on Android with the Microsoft Outlook application"
excerpt: "Find out how to configure an Email Pro account on Adroid with the Microsoft Outlook application"
updated: 2023-07-25
---

## Objective

You can configure Email Pro accounts on email clients, if they are compatible. By doing so, you can use your email address through your preferred device.

**Find out how to configure an Email Pro account on Android with the Microsoft Outlook application.**

## Requirements

> - an [Email Pro](https://www.ovhcloud.com/en-gb/emails/email-pro/){.external} solution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An [Email Pro](https://www.ovhcloud.com/en-gb/emails/email-pro/){.external} solution.
```

> 
> This guide is designed to help you with common tasks. Nevertheless, we recommend contacting a [specialist provider](https://partner.ovhcloud.com/en-gb/directory/) and/or the service’s software publisher if you encounter any difficulties. We will not be able to assist you. You can find more information in the [“Go further”](#go-further) section of this guide.
> 

## Instructions

### Step 1: Retrieve your Email Pro account information <a name="step1"></a>

Log in to your [OVHcloud Control Panel](https://www.ovh.com/auth/?action=gotomanager&from=https://www.ovh.co.uk/&ovhSubsidiary=GB){.external} then go to the `Web Cloud`{.action} section. In the left-hand column, click `Professionnal emails`{.action} then choose the Email Pro platform where you want to configure your email address.

On the new page, click the `Email accounts`{.action} tab.

![Outlook-android-emailpro-login](images/ol-android-ep-login.png){.thumbnail}

Get the name of the Email Pro server that appears below the `Webmail`{.action} entry. In our example shown above, it is `proX.mail.ovh.net`.

> [!warning]
>

> > Get the **correct name** of the Email Pro server where the email address you want to configure is located. It may vary depending on the duration of your Email Pro solution (pro1.mail.ovh.net, pro2.mail.ovh.net, etc.).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Make sure to retrieve the **correct name** of the Email Pro server where the email address you want to configure is located. It may vary depending on the duration of your Email Pro solution (pro1.mail.ovh.net, pro2.mail.ovh.net, etc.).
```

> 

In the `Email accounts`{.action} tab of your *Email Pro* platform, a table will be displayed with your Email Pro address(es).

If you no longer remember the password to access the email address you want to configure, you can change it using the `...`{.action} button located on the same line to the right of the email account.

Then select `Edit`{.action}, choose a new password and confirm it. Then click `Next`{.action} and `Validate`{.action} in the second window.

> The password change will be processed in approximately the next 15 minutes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The password change will be processed within the next 15 minutes approximately.
```

> [!success]
>
> With the **IMAP** synchronisation protocol, you can retrieve an “image” of the emails stored in your Email Pro address on the server side, and view them in your Microsoft Outlook application. **without** deleting the email from the Email Pro server where your email address is located. This protocol is very useful especially if you have several devices configured with your email address.
>
> The **POP3** protocol will, by default, retrieve the email received on the Email Pro server where your email address is located and keep it in the application/software configured with it. As a result, the email is no longer present on the Email Pro server, only on the device configured with your email address via the POP protocol.
> This protocol is not recommended if you have several devices configured with your email address. The email will only appear on one of the devices configured in **POP3** and not on all of the devices configured with your email address.
>
> However and despite the **POP3** configuration, some email software/applications still return a copy of the email to the server where your email address is located. This copy may remain temporarily or permanently.

> > To find out if your application / software is part of it, contact the software publisher directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> To find out if your application / software applies this method, contact the software publisher directly.
```

>

#### Case 1: Configuring Microsoft Outlook on Android with IMAP

Select `IMAP`{.action} at the bottom of your screen.

On the new page that pops up, your email address is pre-filled.

> Enter your Email Pro password in the form `Password`{.action} just below where your email address is already pre-filled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enter your Email Pro password in the `Password`{.action} form right below where your email address is already pre-filled.
```

> In the two forms that follow, and completely **optional**, you can enter a `Display name`{.action} and a `Description`{.action}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Optionally, in the two forms that follow, you can enter a `Display name`{.action} and a `Description`{.action}.
```

To continue, select the button labelled `ADVANCED SETTINGS`{.action} to display the rest of the configuration menu.

Then fill in the various forms with the following information.

For the **IMAP incoming mail server** section:

>  - **IMAP host name**: Enter the name of your Email Pro server retrieved earlier in [step 1](#step1): (examples: *pro1.mail.ovh.net*, *pro2.mail.ovh.net*, etc.);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **IMAP host name**: Enter the name of your Email Pro server previously retrieved in [step 1](#step1): (examples: *pro1.mail.ovh.net*, *pro2.mail.ovh.net*, etc.);
```

>  - **Port**: enter the port number **993**;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **Port**: Enter the port number **993**;
```

 - **Security type**: Select **SSL/TLS** security from the dropdown list.
 - **IMAP username**: Enter the email address you would like to configure

>  - **IMAP password**: enter the password to access the email address you want to configure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **IMAP password**: Enter the password to access the email address you want to configure.
```

For the **SMTP Outgoing Mail Server** section:

>  - **SMTP Host Name**: Enter the name of your Email Pro server retrieved earlier in [step 1](#step1): (examples: *pro1.mail.ovh.net*, *pro2.mail.ovh.net*, etc.);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **SMTP Host Name**: Enter the name of your Email Pro server previously retrieved in [step 1](#step1): (examples: *pro1.mail.ovh.net*, *pro2.mail.ovh.net*, etc.);
```

>  - **Port**: enter the port number **587**;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **Port**: Enter the port number **587**;
```

 - **Security type**: Select **StartTls** security from the dropdown list.
 - **SMTP username**: Enter the email address you would like to configure

>  - **SMTP password**: enter the password to access the email address you want to configure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **SMTP password**: Enter the password to access the email address you want to configure.
```

Then make sure that all the settings you have entered match the above, and click the `V`{.action} icon in the top right-hand corner of your screen.

### Case 2: configuring Microsoft Outlook application on Android with "POP3" protocol

Click `POP3`{.action} at the bottom of your screen. 

On the new page that pops up, your email address is pre-filled.

> Enter your Email Pro password in the form `Password`{.action} just below where your email address is already pre-filled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enter your Email Pro password in the `Password`{.action} form right below where your email address is already pre-filled.
```

> In the two forms that follow, and completely **optional**, you can enter a `Display name`{.action} and a `Description`{.action}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Optionally, in the two forms that follow, you can enter a `Display name`{.action} and a `Description`{.action}.
```

To continue, select the button labelled `ADVANCED SETTINGS`{.action} to display the rest of the configuration menu.

Then fill in the various forms with the following information.

For the **POP incoming mail server** section:

>  - **POP host name**: Enter the name of your Email Pro server retrieved earlier in [step 1](#step1): (examples: *pro1.mail.ovh.net*, *pro2.mail.ovh.net*, etc.);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **POP host name**: Enter the name of your Email Pro server previously retrieved in [step 1](#step1): (examples: *pro1.mail.ovh.net*, *pro2.mail.ovh.net*, etc.);
```

>  - **Port**: enter the port number **995**;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **Port**: Enter the port number **995**;
```

 - **Security type**: Select **SSL/TLS** security from the dropdown list.
 - **POP username**: Enter the email address you would like to configure

>  - **POP password**: enter the password to access the email address you want to configure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **POP password**: Enter the password to access the email address you want to configure.
```

For the **SMTP Outgoing Mail Server** section:

>  - **SMTP Host Name**: Enter the name of your Email Pro server retrieved earlier in [step 1](#step1): (examples: *pro1.mail.ovh.net*, *pro2.mail.ovh.net*, etc.);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **SMTP Host Name**: Enter the name of your Email Pro server previously retrieved in [step 1](#step1): (examples: *pro1.mail.ovh.net*, *pro2.mail.ovh.net*, etc.);
```

>  - **Port**: enter the port number **587**;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **Port**: Enter the port number **587**;
```

 - **Security type**: Select **StartTls** security from the dropdown list.
 - **SMTP username**: Enter the email address you would like to configure

>  - **SMTP password**: enter the password to access the email address you want to configure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **SMTP password**: Enter the password to access the email address you want to configure.
```
